Module_20_Self_Assessment
Omar J. Nasir
Module 20_Individual Self- Assessment
The following in italics is taken verbatim from the rubric to focus the response.

Self Assessment:
Presents a cohesive written analysis that describes the role played and their contribution to the project in that role. Presents a cohesive written summary of how they contributed to each of their roles they did not take on via team discussions, peer review or other means.
Additionally, the analysis should describe their greatest personal challenge over the course of the project and how they overcame that challenge.
Prepares a cohesive written analysis that describes their teamwork, including all of the following:
Team Assessment
•	Their Communication Protocol, including any challenges, how they were resolved and what they would do differently next time.
•	The strengths as a team, including tips and tricks they would like to share with a new cohort kicking off the project
Summary of the Project
Presents a cohesive three to four sentence summary of the project that could be used on a Linkedln profile, in an interview or as an elevator pitch, including all of the following
•	Topic Addressed
•	Machine Module Used
•	Results of Analysis

Response
Our Group-Group6 was unique in the sense of capabilities possessed and its geographical disbursement. The topic chosen was the Fast Food Industry. The process of choosing the topic was democratic with the girls out voting the only male in the group. It was very nice cohesive group. The agenda and the administration was in the hands of the girls. The roles of triangle, square, round etc. were dished out and rotated. The author did not access to the rubric until 3 days before the presentation. Earlier on in the 4th week the rubric was given to me by a TA.  So whatever the girls wanted, it was “Aye Aye Ma’am”. The topic of Fast Food Industry would not have been my choice, and the to argue that Fast Food causes diabetes would be baseless, because Fast Food does not cause diabetes, but may contribute to it. Diabetes had been there before Fast Food came into existence.  This fact was brought out to the other members of the team, but they refuse to acknowledge it. Diabetes has been mentioned in the Vedic Literature (Ancient India) and even a cure recommended.  Initially, I thought we could debate the topic, but the sequential nature of the presentation would make it impossible. The female team members and I split because there was no agreement. Men and women think differently. So, I created the Business Case for the Fast Food Industry, which was more rational. Another thing splitting the group were values, attitudes and beliefs (VABs). So, it was a very challenging time. The geographical distance, coupled with difference in values was causing the problems-Alaska, California and Florida. It is difficult to unite such a diverse group, but we managed with some help from Jeffrey Susmarski (-the Success Manager).
Personal Challenge:
Personal Challenge was to keep the group united and to disagree at the same time. Disagreements would create spin offs, and that is what happened.  With the overall umbrella of Fast Food the business case was made – a semi-autonomous organization.
In technical terms the author had very difficult time getting the right model for machine learning. The regression model failed miserably, so going back on my experience in mathematics, a new model was created and then another machine model was introduced, which was based on Module18- Autoregression. These two models correctly predicted the future. Business background in marketing management created the framework of analyzing future markets and investments. The project had to be in Data Analytics, so the marketing aspect was not presented in detail, but nonetheless conclusions were right. 
It is normal for two people to disagree, but the containment of disagreement is the key to organizational success and we succeeded as a group!

Team Assessment:
Normally, SWOT (Strengths, Weaknesses, Opportunities and Threats) is conducted in the beginning of the project, so that each member can contribute his best effort and is utilized at his strength and not weaknesses.  SWOT Analysis is introduced in courses in Business Administration, but with the other members this rationale was not possible. Democracy being the name of the game. 
Advice for future Cohorts:
Make the group of like-minded people in the same geographical locale.  Choose your members based on their prior education. Ask for members by name early on, and start the project before completing Modules. Two good people can complete the project very easily. Most of the time is spent on coordinating and managing different outputs. There is no time in the project to entertain lengthy discussions. 
You cannot argue with somebody in England, Australia or New Zealand, India etc. their world is different. Their realities and experiential knowledge base is very different.
Democracy is not the best of organization. The leadership should be in the hands of the most knowledgeable and leadership should change as the topic changes. It should not be that an individual in the group scores higher the combined efforts of four people-that would under deployment of resources.

Summary:
The Fast Food Industry project was undertaken at the end of the Data Analytics Course and the conclusions were as follows:
•	Fast Food is not healthy
•	Fast Food Business is good investment, as it is predicated on the growth of American Middle Class-the working classes who are on a short 30-minute break!
•	Machine Models used were from Supervised and Unsupervised Learning. Applied mathematical analysis from other subjects like marketing and operations research can be used in Data Analytics.

